
## Once you're closer to the interview

- Cracking The Coding Interview Set 2 (videos):
    - [Cracking The Code Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4NIb9l3imAo)
    - [Cracking the Coding Interview - Fullstack Speaker Series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eg5-tdAwclo)

## Best way to find perfect career opportunities for you
- If you are trying to find new job opportunities, or if you are trying to find internships, if want to know about the salary of a job role in any companies or want to just know about the company reputation before applying to that company, here are the list of platforms which can help you find the above answers and more. 
- [Best Websites for Careers & Jobs](https://ayedot.com/151/MiniBlog/Top-10-Best-Websites-for-Careers--Jobs)

## Your Resume

- See Resume prep items in Cracking The Coding Interview and back of Programming Interviews Exposed
- Very Important thing to remember while creating your resume, if you applying for big companies is that make it ATS Compliant. 
- [How to Create or Check if your Resume is ATS Compliant](https://ayedot.com/97/MiniBlog/Meaning-of-ATS-compliant-resume-and-How-to-create-ATS-Resume-for-Free)

## Be thinking of for when the interview comes

Think of about 20 interview questions you'll get, along with the lines of the items below. Have 2-3 answers for each.
Have a story, not just data, about something you accomplished.

- Why do you want this job?
- What's a tough problem you've solved?
- Biggest challenges faced?
- Best/worst designs seen?
- Ideas for improving an existing product
- How do you work best, as an individual and as part of a team?
- Which of your skills or experiences would be assets in the role and why?
- What did you most enjoy at [job x / project y]?
- What was the biggest challenge you faced at [job x / project y]?
- What was the hardest bug you faced at [job x / project y]?
- What did you learn at [job x / project y]?
- What would you have done better at [job x / project y]?


- If you find hard to come up with good answers of this type interview questions, you can refer below link for some answer templates and have some idea. 
- [General Interview Questions and their Answers](https://ayedot.com/119/MiniBlog/General-Interview-Questions-and-their-Answers-for-Tech-Jobs)


## Have questions for the interviewer

    Some of mine (I already may know answer to but want their opinion or team perspective):

- How large is your team?
- What does your dev cycle look like? Do you do waterfall/sprints/agile?
- Are rushes to deadlines common? Or is there flexibility?
- How are decisions made in your team?
- How many meetings do you have per week?
- Do you feel your work environment helps you concentrate?
- What are you working on?
- What do you like about it?
- What is the work life like?
- How is work/life balance?


## Once You've Got The Job

Congratulations!

Keep learning.

You're never really done.

---

    *****************************************************************************************************
    *****************************************************************************************************

    Everything below this point is optional.
    By studying these, you'll get greater exposure to more CS concepts, and will be better prepared for
    any software engineering job. You'll be a much more well-rounded software engineer.

    *****************************************************************************************************
    *****************************************************************************************************

---