
## Before you Get Started

This list grew over many months, and yes, it kind of got out of hand.

Here are some mistakes I made so you'll have a better experience.

### 1. You Won't Remember it All

I watched hours of videos and took copious notes, and months later there was much I didn't remember. I spent 3 days going
through my notes and making flashcards, so I could review.

Please, read so you won't make my mistakes:

[Retaining Computer Science Knowledge](https://startupnextdoor.com/retaining-computer-science-knowledge/).

A course recommended to me (haven't taken it): [Learning how to Learn](https://www.coursera.org/learn/learning-how-to-learn).

### 2. Use Flashcards

To solve the problem, I made a little flashcards site where I could add flashcards of 2 types: general and code.
Each card has different formatting.

I made a mobile-first website, so I could review on my phone and tablet, wherever I am.

Make your own for free:

- [Flashcards site repo](https://github.com/jwasham/computer-science-flash-cards)
- [My flash cards database (old - 1200 cards)](https://github.com/jwasham/computer-science-flash-cards/blob/main/cards-jwasham.db):
- [My flash cards database (new - 1800 cards)](https://github.com/jwasham/computer-science-flash-cards/blob/main/cards-jwasham-extreme.db):

Keep in mind I went overboard and have cards covering everything from assembly language and Python trivia to machine learning and statistics. It's way too much for what's required.

**Note on flashcards:** The first time you recognize you know the answer, don't mark it as known. You have to see the
same card and answer it several times correctly before you really know it. Repetition will put that knowledge deeper in
your brain.

An alternative to using my flashcard site is [Anki](http://ankisrs.net/), which has been recommended to me numerous times. It uses a repetition system to help you remember.
It's user-friendly, available on all platforms and has a cloud sync system. It costs $25 on iOS but is free on other platforms.

My flashcard database in Anki format: https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/25173560 (thanks [@xiewenya](https://github.com/xiewenya)).

### 3. Start doing coding interview questions while you're learning data structures and algorithms

You need to apply what you're learning to solving problems, or you'll forget. I made this mistake. Once you've learned a topic,
and feel comfortable with it, like linked lists, open one of the coding interview books and do a couple of questions regarding
linked lists. Then move on to the next learning topic. Then later, go back and do another linked list problem,
or recursion problem, or whatever. But keep doing problems while you're learning. You're not being hired for knowledge,
but how you apply the knowledge. There are several books and sites I recommend.
See here for more: [Coding Question Practice](#coding-question-practice).

### 4. Review, review, review

I keep a set of cheat sheets on ASCII, OSI stack, Big-O notations, and more. I study them when I have some spare time.

Take a break from programming problems for a half hour and go through your flashcards.

### 5. Focus

There are a lot of distractions that can take up valuable time. Focus and concentration are hard. Turn on some music
without lyrics and you'll be able to focus pretty well.

## What you won't see covered

These are prevalent technologies but not part of this study plan:

- SQL
- Javascript
- HTML, CSS, and other front-end technologies

## The Daily Plan

Some subjects take one day, and some will take multiple days. Some are just learning with nothing to implement.

Each day I take one subject from the list below, watch videos about that subject, and write an implementation in:
- C - using structs and functions that take a struct * and something else as args
- C++ - without using built-in types
- C++ - using built-in types, like STL's std::list for a linked list
- Python - using built-in types (to keep practicing Python)
- and write tests to ensure I'm doing it right, sometimes just using simple assert() statements
- You may do Java or something else, this is just my thing

You don't need all these. You need only [one language for the interview](#pick-one-language-for-the-interview).

Why code in all of these?
- Practice, practice, practice, until I'm sick of it, and can do it with no problem (some have many edge cases and bookkeeping details to remember)
- Work within the raw constraints (allocating/freeing memory without help of garbage collection (except Python or Java))
- Make use of built-in types, so I have experience using the built-in tools for real-world use (not going to write my own linked list implementation in production)

I may not have time to do all of these for every subject, but I'll try.

You can see my code here:
 - [C](https://github.com/jwasham/practice-c)
 - [C++](https://github.com/jwasham/practice-cpp)
 - [Python](https://github.com/jwasham/practice-python)

You don't need to memorize the guts of every algorithm.

Write code on a whiteboard or paper, not a computer. Test with some sample inputs. Then test it out on a computer.